---
layout: post
title: Week 4 - Gitting Good at Git
---

This week, in class, we talked about Git and did some presentations for our open-source projects that we've been working on. I’m going to briefly go over both and point out some interesting things that I learned.

<!--more-->


### Git

Git is a crucial part of making open-source software a reality. It enables developers to track their work and collaborate with other developers in a straightforward manner. I’m already pretty familiar with Git, mostly because I’ve spent a good amount of time playing around with it and testing things out, however, there are a few things that I learned from our talk about Git in class:

The first thing I learned was the `git restore` command. In the past, whenever I accidentally deleted a specific file, I usually would jump to the `git reset` or the `git checkout – <file to bring back>` command. So, to find out that there is a specific command in Git to restore a deleted file (before it’s been committed) is pretty interesting!

Another takeaway from the talk is that I NEED to be using more Aliases when using Git. Most of the time, I like to use Git in the terminal so that I can control exactly what’s going on. I find that the VSCode Git interface, while useful for some things like staging files, quickly seeing what has been changed in a file, doing Git Blame, and a few other things, some of their buttons like “Sync” seem to hide a lot of what’s going on which can be a pain when there’s a problem like a merge conflict.

Since I like to use the terminal for Git, I usually end up typing out entire commands! However, since the professor was talking about aliases for specific commands, I realised that I didn't have any in my terminal for Git :(. So, after the class, I decided to add the following lines to my `zshrc` file:

`alias gl='git log --oneline'`

`alias gs='git status'`

`alias gc='git commit -m'`

This creates three aliases that take normally long commands into short two-letter commands. While nothing crazy, I have already found that not having to type in two entire words is a huge time saver!

### Browser-Scrollbar extension

Among the presentations, this project seemed both practical and a cool idea. It had a nice and simple user interface and seemed to work pretty well in the presentation.

I thought the idea of copying the contents of the `body` tag was a very clever and simple solution to create an infinite page scrolling illusion. I’d be curious to see if there are any side effects of copy and pasting the entire HTML page such as multiple HTTP requests to the same API or reloading things more than they need to be. Nevertheless, it was a pretty interesting idea!

### WebsiteTimeTracker extension

This extension tracks how much time a user spends on a specific page. I thought the idea was pretty useful; it reminded me a lot of the Apple time tracking for apps on your phone. I thought the most interesting part of this project was the code of conduct. While it seemed like there was a bit of skepticism around it during the Q & A section, I thought that it was a great idea! Instead of spending time writing a long code of conduct, you should be spending time actually coding the project.
Therefore, this very minimalistic code of conduct seemed to make a lot of sense and echoes my thoughts in my article about the code of conduct - we’re all adults so you should know how to behave like one.

### My biggest takeaway from this project

While it might seem small, my biggest takeaway from the project was that we can add GitHub pull and issue templates to projects. This is a pretty small thing, but it’s a nice feature in GitHub that I had never tried out before. It’s a great way to make sure that users of a project actually put useful information into issues/PRs so that maintainers of the project can understand what’s going on.

I have a few small open-source projects and have gotten a handful of issues on them, and I would say that about 80% of them required me to ask them for more detail on what was going on… Maybe I should make an Issue template for them after writing this!

Overall, the project was a pretty useful way to get practice with Git and was a great chance to play around with some of the GitHub-specific features like their Issue and PR templates.



