---
layout: post
title:  Week 12 | The Cathedral and the Bazaar
---

Raymond’s essay breaks down the difference between traditional top-down software development (the cathedral) and the open, community-driven approach (the bazaar). Both models can work great for open source development! An example of a successful project that has a very concentrated set of developers is SQLite, and one that is more open (the bazaar approach) is FreeCodeCamp. Below are the two most interesting opinions from the essay and my thoughts on them:

<!--more-->

### Given enough eyeballs, all bugs are shallow.  

This is one of the core ideas in the essay, which I’d say still holds up today. When more people are reading and using your code, bugs don’t stay hidden for long. That being said, the main counterargument to this point is that if everyone thinks that all of the bugs will be magically caught by other people, then nobody will end up looking for issues in the software, which could lead to big vulnerabilities.

In the case of the open source project that our group is working on, we’ve only really seen a net positive from all of the people paying attention to the project! For example, there’s been a few issues where we’ve suggested adding some icons to the library, and very quickly, another contributor to the project pointed out some suggested improvements. I wouldn’t necessarily call these improvements “bugs,” but the concept of having a large number of eyeballs on a project can definitely lead to a better product!

### Release early, release often.  

Releasing often in small chunks generally seems to be better than releasing a new version of a project all at once. Releasing small sub-versions allows people to slowly test the project and find bugs before it gets forced onto everyone via a new official version. Almost all open source projects seem to follow this approach these days, and it seems to have worked very well! In the project that we’ve been working on (Lucide), they do frequent releases (about once a week). This ensures that the project never gets too stale and that new additions to the project, as well as bug fixes, make it into the production version quickly.

# Clause Warren’s Coffeehouse Idea

Clause Warren talks about the "Coffeehouse" as a metaphor for open, creative spaces where ideas flow freely. You don’t need a rigid agenda, you just need a place where people can bump into each other and talk. In theory, that sounds great … but in practice, it can be quite hard to make an active community where people can easily communicate. For example, in Lucide, they have a Discord, but it’s surprisingly inactive compared to the activity on their PRs and Issues. You need community maintainers who are constantly monitoring the space and encouraging positive conversations — that’s something a lot of projects just don’t have the bandwidth for.

# OSPO in Companies

Open Source Program Offices (OSPOs) play a key role in how companies engage with the open source world. At Microsoft, the OSPO helps shift the culture from “closed to collaborative.” They say it’s about making sure the company not only uses open source responsibly but also gives back through funding, compliance, and hiring maintainers. Over at Meta, the OSPO supports entire teams dedicated to maintaining open source projects like React and PyTorch. They also build internal systems to make contributing to open source easier for their engineers. 

At the end of the day, these big tech companies realize the importance of supporting open source projects, since a lot of their internal tools rely on them. By donating money to maintainers or even hiring developers to work full time on open source software, they not only improve their brand image, but they also ensure that some of their own project dependencies stay healthy!



