---
layout: post
title:  Week 7 | Finding Active Open Source Projects
---

Currently, our team is well aligned on wanting to focus on a Javascript/Typescript project. We were able to find an interesting project to work on, however, upon further research, it didn’t really seem active enough. The maintainer was very friendly and replied quickly to issues, but very little ended up getting merged in, which was unfortunate since it would have been a great project to learn more about React.js.

<!--more-->

## Pivoting

Given that the initial project we wanted to work on started to look like it wasn’t going to work out, we started scouring the web for other interesting open source projects based in a language that we all have some familiarity with. As of writing this article, we’ve almost narrowed down our search to one project!

## Project Criteria

Finding a good open source project turned out to be a lot harder than we thought! Mainly because we wanted to find a project that matched all of the following criteria:

Given that we’re going to be spending a good amount of time working on the project, we first wanted to find some projects that we were interested in – this part was easy.
After finding a big list of interesting projects, we then eliminated ones that didn’t have an active community. This really shrunk our pool of potential projects. We wanted ones that had a good amount of contributors, active conversations in issues, a project that merges PRs into the project relatively quickly, and one that had a friendly atmosphere.
Once we narrowed down our list of projects to ones that were both interesting and active, we then had to remove a few due to being way too complex. None of us are experts at React, so some of the projects were just out of our level of expertise.

## Our Potential Projects

After narrowing down our list of projects, we landed on a few that meet all of our requirements. Here are some quick summaries of a few of the projects that we’re considering working on:

### ExcaliDraw

[Excalidraw](https://github.com/excalidraw/excalidraw) is a very popular open source project (93k+ stars) that lets people easily draw doodles or diagrams on the web! It’s built with React and Typescript and has a relatively well-structured codebase. That being said, even though the codebase looks pretty clean, it is quite complex and would definitely take a lot of work to learn how the project works.

### Mermaid

[Mermaid.js](https://github.com/mermaid-js/mermaid) is a cool package that lets people create beautiful charts for the web! It’s an active project and is built using half TypeScript and half JavaScript. It’s a pretty interesting project and could be good to contribute too. The only concern is that many of the graphs rely heavily on math, which may make certain issues trickier to help with.

### Shadcn

[Shadcn](https://github.com/shadcn-ui/ui) is a great component library written in TypeScript. It lets developers easily make nice looking websites and seems like an approachable project to contribute too. That being said, it isn’t as active as the above two projects, so it may be hard to interact with the community.

## Conclusion

Overall, our group has been in sync and we’re excited to start contributing to a front-end-based project and all improving our JavaScript skills! The only main obstacle that we’ve faced is the one I’ve talked about in this article – finding a good project. That being said, we’ve almost overcome the obstacle and should be able to get to work contributing to the one we select soon!


