---
layout: post
title: Week 3 - Collaborating on Open Source Projects
---

This weekend, our team met for a few hours to create our browser extension for the course. We felt like the most important part of this project was to get practice in areas of the development cycle that we were least experienced in. I think we were able to accomplish that goal. I spent most of my time writing the JavaScript for the extension and also setting up some GitHub issues and PR templates. Brizen spent most of her time working on writing the Code of Conduct and other open-source files. Meanwhile, Lulu set up the GitHub repository (since she had the least experience with Git), picked an open-source license, and worked on the project's branding.

<!--more-->

### The Good

Overall, I think our team was able to identify our strengths and weaknesses quite well, which we then used to our advantage. We didn't try to make a project that was too complicated; instead, we tried to make a project that merged our skill sets together and was something that we could all work on. In the end, I think what's more important than building a browser extension is working in a team and getting practice creating an open source project: Setting up contributor files, handling merge conflicts, etc…

### What I learned

During my first open-source contribution in this course to AioHTTP (a popular asynchronous HTTP client in Python) I learned about issues and PR templates. I noticed that in AioHTTP they make you read the Code of Conduct before creating an issue (by making you check "I have read the Code of Conduct").

I thought this was a pretty clever way to get people to read the Code of Conduct for a project since, let's be honest, if there wasn't a reminder to read it when creating an issue, most people wouldn't read it. So, I wanted to learn how to create these templates and I thought that this project would be a great time to test them out. It turns out that it's pretty easy - just a few button clicks in the repository settings page!

I ended up creating a custom template for both issues and PRs, which reminds people to read the Code of Conduct and also suggests what to include in the issue, such as examples of the problem, computer specs, and recreation steps. For PRs, I added a section reminding contributors to link the issue number.

### Final Thoughts

Overall, I thought the project was a fun exercise in using Git to collaborate with other people and my main takeaway is that you can create GitHub issues and PR templates quite easily for your repositories!


