---
layout: post
title:  Week 15 | More Thoughts on the Second Round of Presentations
---

Today we listened to two presentations from more groups on their open-source project contributions. Here are my thoughts on them below:

<!-- More -->

## AutoGen

AutoGen is an AI-based open-source project maintained by Microsoft! Microsoft actually hires engineers just to work on their open-source projects, which I think is pretty cool! The AutoGen team was able to connect with some of the maintainers of the project to get help on what to contribute to. Contributing to a project like AutoGen sounds like a great way to connect with people in big tech (specifically Microsoft), and I'm sure it could lead to a job referral if they like you enough.

## Lucide

This was our group! Our presentation went exactly on time and also received some good questions! Overall, there wasn’t much that I think could have been improved, and it was a good ending to our group project. I want to wait a bit to see if the maintainers will merge or at least close my current pull requests, but after they do, I definitely think that I’ll continue to contribute to the project in the future—just not as aggressively.

## Oppia (Group 1)

Before this class, I had never heard of Oppia, but apparently, it’s a pretty big website for learning about coding! This team was made up of three people, all of whom knew different languages (Chinese, Italian, and Spanish). This ended up working out really well for them since they were able to translate course content from English into all of these languages!
