---
layout: post
title: Week 1 - What is Open Source?
---


When I think of the term "open-source," I think of all the great projects people have spent their time creating for free! There are many advantages to open-source software, both for developers worldwide and the people writing the code. One of the biggest advantages I see is that it can massively speed up the development time of projects. If you want to make an API, use FastAPI, or if you need to do some machine learning, you can use a package like SciKit-Learn. If it weren't for free and easily accessible projects like these, a lot of developers, including myself, would take much longer to do things that are trivial today thanks to open-source software. 

While I'd say that open-source software is a net positive, there are a few downsides. One big drawback is also its greatest strength: anyone can commit code to a project. While this usually isn't an issue, sometimes bad actors can sneak commits into a small open-source project that leads to an exploit! Even if the most popular open-source projects are well guarded from malicious contributors, the big projects may use a medium-sized project that relies on a super small project that an attacker can exploit.

That being said, I want to continue to learn more about open-source and contribute to projects to help make them better. The main reason why I took this course was to get practice understanding and adding code to large codebases. I've spent some time skimming through the source code of some of the larger Python projects that I use, such as Pandas, and the code bases for these types of projects tend to be very complex since the projects do complex things. Being able to understand the code in these large projects better seems like a good way to learn new programming techniques and refine my engineering skills.

There are many projects that I think could be fun to contribute to. A lot of which I already use all the time. Here are four open-source projects that I like:

### FastAPI

FastAPI is a great project that takes advantage of the Asynchronous aspect of Python. It also uses built-in Python syntax in very clever ways, such as its use of type hinting and decorators. FastAPI has helped me to write more elegant APIs (and documentation for them) and allows me to use Asyncio in Python more!

### Pandas

I use Pandas all the time for data analysis. It's an extremely powerful piece of open-source software that has saved me a lot of time. Pandas would be a great project to try and contribute to since the codebase is very large, and thus, I'm sure has a lot that can be learned from it.

### Psycopg3

I'm a big fan of PostgreSQL, and Psycopg3 is a nice open-source Python package that lets people connect to and query a Postgres database. Spending some time contributing to and reading the source code of Psycopg3 would be quite interesting.

### Undetected-chromedriver

I like to do some occasional web-scraping, and when there's too much JavaScript to be able to use just HTTP requests, I often turn to this altered version of the standard ChromeDriver, which works with Selenium. This open-source project essentially alters the compiled ChromeDriver and injects some javascript into each browser instance. It's a great project and has been super handy for mimicking a real browser.


Those are four projects that I find interesting, but there are many more. Hopefully, by the end of the semester, I'll be able to contribute to some of them!


