---
layout: post
title:  Week 15 | More Thoughts on the Second Week of Presentations
---

This week we listened to more presentations from groups on their open-source project contributions. Here are my thoughts on them below:

<!-- More -->

## AutoGen

AutoGen is an AI-based open-source project maintained by Microsoft! Microsoft actually hires engineers just to work on their open-source projects, which I think is pretty cool. The AutoGen team was able to connect with some of the maintainers of the project to get help on what to contribute to, which definitely seemed to give them a big head start. Contributing to a project like AutoGen sounds like a great way to connect with people in big tech (specifically Microsoft), and I'm sure it could lead to a job referral if they like you enough!

## Lucide

This was our group! Our presentation went exactly on time and received some good questions. Overall, there wasn’t much I think could have been improved, and it was a strong ending to our group project. I want to wait a bit to see if the maintainers will merge or at least close my current pull requests, but after they do, I definitely think I’ll continue to contribute to the project in the future – just not as aggressively.

## Oppia (Group 1)

Before this class, I had never heard of Oppia, but apparently, it’s a pretty big website for learning! This team was made up of three people, all of whom knew different languages (Chinese, Italian, and Spanish). This ended up working out really well for them since they were able to translate course content from English into all of these languages.

## Oppia (Group 3)

A total of three groups decided to contribute to Oppia, which was really surprising to me given just how many open-source projects are out there. This group seemed to mostly focus on UX/UI contributions involving design, responsiveness, and general CSS bugs on the website during the beginning of the semester. Towards the end of the semester, they focused more on making lesson plans on the Oppia site. They talked about how they made a lesson on learning Git, which I'm sure is very useful for people getting into programming!

## Mattermost

Mattermost is an open-source messaging and collaboration platform for teams. It uses an interesting dual-license structure – one MIT license for their free product and a more restrictive license for their enterprise offering. Another interesting thing about this project is how they track their issues… They use both Git issues and Jira, which sounds like a huge mess. Having to update / track an issue in two places instead of just one seems like it would waste a lot of time, but apparently the Mattermost team makes it work for them.

## Odin

The Odin Project is another learning platform specifically designed for learning to program. The project seems to be mostly geared towards people who are very new to programming. They start by teaching people CSS, HTML, and Git, and from there they have two paths: a JavaScript path and a Ruby path. Once users get good at coding, many of them actually go over to the Odin Git repo and contribute back to the project they just learned from. This seems like a great idea because the people who just went through the course have firsthand experience with what can be improved, and they also gain experience contributing to a beginner-friendly open-source project!
