---
layout: post
title:  Week 16 | Thoughts on the Last Week of Presentations
---

For the last blog post of this class, I’m going to talk about the last three presentations that we listened to!

<!--more-->

## Gleam

Gleam is a new functional programming language that’s used to write super-fast web servers! The people in this group wanted to learn more about compilers, and it sounds like that’s exactly what they did. The compiler for this project is written in Rust, which seems like a great choice for a newly written compiler. I’ve been thinking about learning Rust for a while now, especially with how prominent it's becoming in the Python ecosystem. It seems like all of the cool fast Python packages these days are written in Rust – UV, Ruff, Polars dataframes, Pydantic, etc.

## Oppia (Group 6)

The last of the three Oppia groups focused on translations and a few small coding issues. It sounds like they had some trouble contributing to the project due to slow responses and an older codebase. Apparently, the project only recently switched from Python 2 to Python 3!

One of the most interesting parts of this presentation was their response to my question about whether AI is currently good enough to create translations into other languages. The person who handled most of the Spanish translations said that it still isn’t perfect, as there are many nuances and different ways to say things depending on the context.

## Open Food Facts

Open Food Facts is a database of food products from around the world that provides nutritional facts about each product. The way it works is you can scan the barcode on a product and it’ll give you extra information about its nutrition.

Unfortunately, it sounds like, due to rude and uninterested contributors, they weren’t able to contribute too much to the project. This seems to be a common issue with open-source projects – an enthusiastic creator starts it, only to gradually move away from it as other responsibilities take over.
