---
layout: post
title: Week 2 | Managing an Open-Source Community
---

In a perfect world, I don’t think open-source projects would need a Code of Conduct page explaining how to be a decent human. However, since open-source software is primarily developed online, there are always some people who don't understand how to act appropriately in an online community. Thus, it can be a good idea to have a Code of Conduct for larger open-source projects to create a set of guidelines laying out what's not ok to do.

<!--more-->

Let’s take a look at some real Code of Conduct pages to see what’s in them and how they differ:

First, I’ll start by talking about the **Go** programming language's Code of Conduct. Like many other ones, it’s based on the Contributor Covenant, which is a popular template used for Code of Conduct pages. The Contributor Covenant basically sums up to “Be a nice and sensible person.” One interesting thing to note is that the Go Code of Conduct is almost identical to the Contributor Covenant. However, there are a few subtle differences - first, the Go community has a more formal conflict resolution process, whereas the original Code of Conduct doesn't mention it. Go is owned by Google, so it makes sense for them to have a conflict resolution process to avoid any legal action being taken against them. The second thing that Go does, unlike some other projects, is personalize their Code of Conduct by adding the names of the contributors, “Gophers,” which makes it easier for contributors to read through the document.

Some projects, like **Eclipse**, have different layouts for their [Code of Conduct](https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php). While it covers mostly the same things, there are a few differences, such as a “no retaliation” section. Their Code of Conduct reads a lot more like a legal document and doesn't seem geared towards contributors.

Other projects also have their own Code of Conduct pages that are based on other templates. One such example is the **Sugar Labs** Code of Conduct, which is based on a template from Ubuntu. This Code of Conduct has more of a community-based moderation approach compared to a Code of Conduct like the one Go has, which uses a much more formal process.

Another Code of Conduct that I looked into was the **Pandas package**. Its [Code of Conduct](https://pandas.pydata.org/community/coc.html) is also based on the Contributor Covenant, but it's a slightly older version (version 1.3 instead of 1.4 for Go). At the end of the day, they say pretty much the exact same thing. However, the Pandas Code of Conduct is a bit less formal and reads like it was written for the community and not for lawyers.

Ultimately, one of the best ways to make sure that everyone’s agenda in a community is aligned and that everyone has a good time contributing to the project is to have a clear **north star** goal for the project. By having an overarching goal that the project is working towards, individual contributors can easily understand how the project will progress and how they can contribute to it. As for how those contributors act in their community, a good rule of thumb is to just act with some common sense with the understanding that some projects have contributors from all around the world with very different cultures!
